A shell is what's known as an interpreter. Similar to a compiler,
 an interpreter translates the human code into machine code.
One of the differences is that an interpreter does this one statement at a time. Meanwhile,
a compiler scans the entire program and translates it all into machine code.


What are the different layers of Linux?

Hardware layer − Hardware consists of all peripheral devices (RAM/ HDD/ CPU etc).

Kernel − It is the core component of Operating System, interacts directly with hardware, provides low level services to upper layer components.

Shell − An interface to kernel, hiding complexity of kernel's functions from users. The shell takes commands from the user and executes kernel's functions.

Utilities − Utility programs that provide the user most of the functionalities of an operating systems.



Explain briefly about three popular Linux shells?


Bash
Bash, or the Bourne-Again Shell, is by far the most widely used choice and it comes installed as the default shell in the most popular Linux distributions. 
It was developed from the original UNIX Bourne shell (also known as sh) and was designed to be fully compatible with the old scripts, while adding multiple improved features.

Bash is a very solid shell option, since it has been used for a long time and there is ample documentation for it. In fact, most online tutorials will assume that you’re using bash.

As a result, it is recommended for most users and works great for most common system administration tasks.
 However, if you need more powerful scripting options or other advanced tools,
  it is time to explore some of the newer shells available


Zsh
Zsh or the Z-shell was designed from the onset to be interactive and incorporate some of the best features of older shells.
 It provides unique scripting features, it is highly customizable and is easy to use,
  with spelling correction, command completion or filename globbing.

  

Installation on CentOS is very easy, with a single command:

yum install zsh
You can now launch the new shell, with the zsh command, you’ll notice a small change in the way the prompt looks:

Keep in mind that you should configure zsh before using it in order to benefit from its most powerful features. 
Several open-source frameworks,
 such as oh-my-zsh, are available for even more customization options and plugins.

 Fish
Fish, or the friendly interactive shell, 
aims to be simpler to use and more user friendly than its competitors. 
It is a great choice for Linux beginners, because it uses colors to help the user. For example, commands with incorrect syntax are displayed in red, while correct ones are blue.

In addition, 
fish provides very useful auto-complete suggestions and even parses the man pages of any new installed package and suggests command completions based on them.


How to get a list of currently running processes and resource utilization in Linux? 
ps, top, and htop.

It is important to know how to list all running processes in your Linux operating system. The knowledge will be useful when you need to manage processes.

Let’s take a look once more at the three commands that you can use to list Linux processes:

ps command — outputs a static view of all processes.
top command — displays the real-time list of all running processes.
htop command — shows the real-time result and is equipped with user-friendly features.




What is a pipeline operator in Linux?

pipeline is mechanism to connecting outpust of one program to input the another program synatx = |
benefit : you dont have to write a big massive program when you existing smaller program that do the part of job 
history | grep "install"  is a good example  
grep is a search bar for the terminal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m2VlXWd5QoE   good examples here 

Explain file permission in Linux. How to change it?
Each file and directory in Linux has three permission levels which define how users can access it.
 These levels are user, group and others. Each permission level has three types of permission; read, write and execute.
  Permission type defines what a user can do with a particular object
  r for read  w for write 
  x for execute
  how to change it ? 
  u - user
  g - group 
  o - other people 

  chmod o+w filename (we give others premission to write)
    chmod o-w filename (we take it away the premission)

    What is the process in a Linux context?
When you are using Linux there are many things going on seemingly at once. You can run multiple applications at the same time. And there is compute going on in the background (e.g. screen updating, mouse rendering, reading and writing to files, etc). You have many more processes going on than you have CPUs to service the processes.

Context switching is what allows each process to get a cut of some CPU’s time. The context of a running process is paged out, 
and the context for the next process is paged in.
Normally this page-in/page-out occurs with cache memory in the processor,
 which makes it very fast. When there isn’t enough cache this will switch to RAM.
When your need for memory exceeds RAM it will go to swap. Each type of memory is slower but larger. The operating system tries to keep as much as it can in cache and then RAM.

What are Regular Expressions(regex)?
What is the meaning of *,+,? In regular expression?
 Allows us to check a series of characters for matches 
 e.g it allows us to check a form field to try and macth a valid email address 
 it must have an @ symbol at a certain postion
 it must end en extention like .com .org ...
 regular expressions allows us to check these type of things 


 What is a sed command?


 What is the difference between Hard Link and Soft Link?

 https://ostechnix.com/explaining-soft-link-and-hard-link-in-linux-with-examples/

 What are Daemons?
 A daemon is a long-running background process that answers requests for services. The term originated with Unix, but most operating systems use daemons in some form or another. 
 In Unix, the names of daemons conventionally end in "d". Some examples include inetd , httpd , nfsd , sshd , named , and lpd 
 https://itsfoss.com/linux-daemons/











